---
layout: post
title:  "RL Ensemble for e-commerce"
date:   2019-09-27 12:00:00 -0300
categories: week7
week: "7"
---

**Paper:** Brodén, B., Hammar, M., Nilsson, B. J., & Paraschakis, D. (2018). Ensemble recommendations via Thompson sampling: an experimental study within e-Commerce. In 23rd International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces (pp. 19-29). ACM.
{: .paper-name}


The paper presents a study on tackling an e-commerce recommendation problem using reinforcement learning.
In an online shopping setting, users are typically unidentified, so they propose solving an item-to-item recommendation problem: given an item, recommend other items, independent to the user.
To this end, they propose an ensemble method consisting of multiple models giving recommendations, and the use of reinforcement learning to choose the final ranked list based on said recommendations.


Besides studying the problem, they implicitly present a recommendation framework that can be used for (almost) any e-commerce or similar problem, and they show that performs well on real-world datasets.
The method is scalable in terms of number of items, and allows adding more recommendation models seamlessly, which makes it flexible for customization.
Also, it solves the cold-start problem, since fallback methods can be added to the ensemble to increase coverage and performance, as they show in the experiments.
This seems like a very robust and flexible method, and it could be applied in similar recommendation applications.


Nonetheless, I missed a comparison with state-of-the-art methods applied to the same problem.
Without that, I'm not sure if the method actually presents an improvement to other approaches.
